Hi.
So let's start our lab session.
So very first step.
I'm going to create my own VPC.
So this is my AWS management console.
I'm already in the VPC dashboard and just click on your VPC.
So as of now, you can see there is only one VPC and that is the default one.
So let me create one more VPC for my this ECS cluster.
Okay.
Now choose this option, VPC and more.
Now it will ask for information from you.
So it is asking the name.
So name of your VPC.
So I'm just putting project.
ECS.
VPC.
New and CIDR.
BLOCK So this is the CIDR BLOCK.
10.0.0.0/ 26.
And we want to IPv6 CIDR block then here you can choose.
So let me go with the default option here and number of availability zones I want 2 and how many
public subnets you want.
I want 2 public and 2 private.
This is my requirement.
You can customize what all the availability zones you want.
So I have chosen this one and this one.
So in Mumbai zone there are 3 availability zones.
So out of 3 I have chosen these 2 and let me customize the subnet CIDR BLOCK So this is the public
subnet.
So the CIDR block, which I have to choose for my public subnet is this 10 .0.0.0/ 28.
And for this, another public subnet, we have this one.
So what were the default CIDR block?
It is showing I have chosen the same as well.
So for private subnet, you have to choose this one and you can see by default it is taking the same
CIDR block.
So that would be easy for you.
So after that, you want the net gateway?
Yes, I want one net gateway.
If you have not chosen the net gateway.
So what will happen when you are configuring the cluster?
You will start getting the error.
So make sure when you create the VPC, the net gateway should be there.
If you are going to launch your container or instances in the private subnets, if you are going to
launch your EC2 instances in the public subnet, then it's okay.
But if you want to choose your instances, that would be the part of your private subnets, then net
gateway is mandatory.
So here you can see the details.
Everything seems fine and let me create my VPC.
So it will take some time for the creation of this VPC.
So here it is just on this step wait NAT gateway to activate.
So friends that's all for this lecture, we'll continue from the next lecture.